.TH WRITEBOOSTTAB 5 "2015-05-07" "writeboost" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
writeboosttab - mappings of cache(d) devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/writeboosttab
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B writeboosttab
contains information about mappings between caching and cached block devices
for writeboost utility.

Each mapping is described on a separate line;
Empty lines and lines starting with '#' are ignored;
Fields on each line are separated by tabs or spaces;

.B The first field
.RI ( dm_name )
.RS
This field describes the name of device-mapepr block device that will be
created as result of mapping.
.LP
Typically after successful mapping the
.I dm_name
will appear in the
.I /dev/mapper
folder.
.RE

.B The second field
.RI ( hdd_device )
.RS
This field describes path to the cached block device, typically "slow"
(rotational) HDD.
.RE

.B The third field
.RI ( ssd_device ).
.RS
This field describes path to the caching block device, typically "fast" SSD.
.RE

.B The forth field
.RI ( options )
.RS
This optional field describes comma-separated list of options passed to
dm-writeboost.
.RE

It is recommended to use reliable paths to block devices like
.I /dev/disk/by-uuid/{UUID}
or similar.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is an example of an entry in the
.B /etc/writeboosttab
file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
 cached_hdd  /dev/disk/by-uuid/2e8260bc-024c-4252-a695-a73898c974c7  /dev/disk/by-partuuid/43372b68-3407-45fa-9b2f-61afe9c26a68  allow_writeback=0,enable_writeback_modulator=0,sync_data_interval=3600
.fi
.RE
.
.SH FILES
.IR /etc/writeboosttab
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR writeboost (8)
.
.SH AUTHOR
 Dmitry Smirnov <onlyjob@member.fsf.org>
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
 Copyright 2015 Libre Solutions Pty Ltd (http://raid6.com.au)
.
.SH LICENSE
 This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.

 This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
